Unknown Speaker Hey, everybody, welcome back to the Data
Science Hangout. So nice to see everybody today. If this is your first time joining
us today, I know there was a lot of love for Matt on LinkedIn. So we might have some people
here joining for the very first time. Thank you for joining us. This is an open space
for the whole data science community to connect and chat about data science leadership, questions
you're facing and getting to learn about what's going on in the world of data science across
different industries and companies. So the sessions are recorded and they're shared to
the Posit YouTube, as well as our Data Science Hangout site. So you can always go back and
rewatch or find helpful resources. Together, at the Data Science Hangouts, we're created,
we're dedicated to creating a welcoming environment for everybody. So we love when you all can
participate and we can hear from everyone, no matter your area of work or level of experience
too. There's always multiple ways you can ask questions, and not just ask questions,
but also provide your perspective. So if there's something you want to jump in and weigh in
on, you can jump in by raising your hand on Zoom here. You could put questions or comments
into the Zoom chat. And feel free to put a little star next to it if you want me to read
it too. I see a lot happening in the chat right now. But I could also call on you to
introduce yourselves and add some context too. We also have a Slido link where you can
ask questions anonymously. And our team will put that into the chat in just a second here.
But with all that, thanks again for joining. I'm so excited to be joined by my co-host
today, Matt Dancho, founder of Business Science. And we were just talking, Matt and I spoke
at our studio conference back in July about the Hangouts. We were like, let's get something
on the books. And here we finally are. So thanks for joining, Matt. I'd love to have
you introduce yourself and maybe share a little bit about the work you do.
Yeah, yeah. Well, first off, Rachel, so thanks so much for having me. You know, we were chatting
and we had talked about doing this back in July, which was when the RStudio conference
was going on. And like you said, I mean, things have just like flown by and here we are in
November and this is exciting. I'm excited to be here. So thank you so much for having
me. Just to introduce myself, my name's Matt. If you guys haven't ever met me before, you
know, it's great to meet you. Thanks so much for showing up. You know, I don't know what
your background is. It sounds like there might be, you know, beginners, experts, maybe a
mix here. So do me a favor. If you're a beginner, can you put like a, you know, just like a
three in the chat, just put the number three so I can get a kind of a sense of where we're
at. All right. All right. All right. Okay. And if you're an expert, put like a five in
the chat. All right, cool. So we've got a good mix of people. So that I like to ask
this just so I know, like, you know, kind of how to, before I start like diving into
like what I do and everything, just to kind of get like a general consensus on, you know,
we got negative five, you know, just to see where you guys are at skill wise. And the
cool thing is, no matter where you're coming from, you know, you're going to learn stuff.
We're here. We're open. Like Rachel said, we're open. So feel free to ask questions.
A little bit about myself. My name is Matt Danchu. I've been doing R for about, I want
to say like 2013 was like officially my moment when I like, yeah, I'm like, I'm going, you
know, full into this thing, which back then it was just kind of like statistics or it
wasn't even, I don't think quite called data science. But, and, you know, I've been, I've
been, I, you know, I don't know if you guys, you guys probably can identify with this. I
got, I got bit by the R bug bad. Like I became obsessed and I just started like learning
as much as I possibly could and trying to apply it to my day job at the time, which I
was working for a small company called Bonnie Forge. And I was just helping them, you
know, handle their customer data, work with the manufacturing team, understand like back
then there was a big drop in oil prices and the products that we made went into oil. So I
was doing like a lot of forecasting and things of those things, think things of that
nature. So fast forward to today, in 2018, I kind of got into 2017, 2018, I got into
consulting kind of as a side hustle at first, and then it slowly became my full-time job.
And then in 2018, I pivoted into education because that's where I really saw a huge demand
for, you know, as I was doing a lot of these consulting projects for companies in like
the marketing domain or finance domain, you know, it was, it was clear to me that the
problem wasn't that they needed a consultant, they really needed education and they needed
help. So in 2018, I founded Business Science, that's my company. And since then, I've
been building a lot of courses, that's what the first four years were. And now we're
getting to the point where we're starting to add additional programs and scale up the
programs, too. So now we have about, I think, four or 5,000 students. And, you know, in
2018, we started with one. So it's been kind of a wild ride. Are any of you guys, students,
Business Science students on the call today? You can put like a one in the chat.
All right, sweet, sweet. So what was really cool back in Art Studio Conference, I got to
meet a ton of my students, I met, I think over 30 students of mine. And it's really cool. I
got pictures with them, got to talk with them, got to see them face to face. And I had no
clue, like, I didn't even think I was gonna run into a single student. And it just, you
know, it really kind of, for me, it's like a humbling moment, because, you know, I see,
like, Business Science education is getting out there, and it's having an impact. And, you
know, those are the cool things that I like to see. So, all right.
That's a little deeper than what you may have wanted.
Sorry, we had a little, I'm gonna ask our studio co host to help with the mute buttons here.
Let's see. There we go. Thanks, everybody. I do see some questions already coming in, Matt. And
this is one that I actually was really interested to ask you about as well, like your journey going
from your company to starting your own business. And the question says, Matt, I'm really eager.
Could you take us through your journey to becoming a mini celeb in the space?
Was it scary to go off and do your own thing?
It was. So, kind of give you, so I'll talk a little bit about, you know, what was going on.
So, the tough part for me was giving up a six-figure, like a cushy six-figure job salary
to do something new and take on a risk. And I think as an entrepreneur, it's something that
I've always wanted to do, but you never really know kind of when the timing is right. So,
I had in 2017, I had started slowly kind of, I made the decision to like build my first course,
and I didn't know like what it was going to do. I launched it in 2018. I think it was like April
or May of 2018. And I got like 50 people in it really quick. So, that to me was like a huge
signal that there was an actual demand. Was it enough to offset my salary and like, you know,
feel like, oh yeah, I'm going to do it? No, not at all. So, some things happened later throughout
that year in 20, I want to say maybe middle of 2018. So, like August of 2018, I ended up making
the decision to leave my company and again, give up that cushy job. It was a huge risk at that
point. And I remember, you know, even throughout that year, I remember in December of that year,
I think I only made like three or $4,000 that month. And this is coming from somebody who was
making like a lot, like probably three or four times that amount every month. And, you know,
there's definitely some question marks like, am I going to be able to like pull this off?
But, you know, for me, the things that really helped when I decided to actually like take that
step forward was sitting down, looking at the numbers, figuring out what people want, talking
to customers, talking to my students at that time, figuring out what their needs were. And then
really just giving it my all. I looked at the numbers and I saw that, hey, if we could do,
you know, this amount each month, you know, we're going to be able to be fine where, you know,
my wife, she was still working full time at that point. And, you know, it was just like, all right.
That for me was like, okay, in January of 2019, I, you know, I put my head down and just started
working and building courses and, and after reviewing the numbers and got the confidence
in myself to really be able to do it. And I just, I just started doing it.
That's great. And something that we've talked about a few times on past weeks of the Hangout
is on building your personal brand. And I think that's something that you do a really great job
of, which I know we originally met on LinkedIn, I think. And I was just curious for, for people who
are like jumping into this space too, and looking to build their, their personal brand. Do you have
any tips for us? Yeah, absolutely. So Rachel, building your personal brand and you, and you
know this, cause you've done a fantastic job as well, especially with being part of our studio
on Posit. I think you're doing a fantastic job at this, but like everyone can really benefit from
building a personal brand. It doesn't matter if you're, you know, trying to get a job, if you're
trying to build your own company, if you're, you know, trying to do even just, you know, kind of
grow yourself personally and kind of step out of your comfort zone. I think it's really important
for everyone to build their own brand. Some tips I can give you. So you're, you're gonna, you know,
don't, don't feel like you need to get it perfect. The, there's a guy that I follow on Twitter,
his name is Justin Welsh, and he does a really good job at like, for people who are trying to
like start their own business, how to, how to do your own personal brand. And some of the things,
like some of the value that I've gotten from him, talking about your journey, like no matter where
you are, just, you know, every day, just going on LinkedIn or maybe every, you know, make it, make it
a point like two, three times a week, just put a post out there of something new that you've learned
or something that you're interested in. And it doesn't have to be like a whole production
because this is the mistake that I always made was I always felt like my copy has to be like
super on point. And it needs to be like something I've thought about for like days or, you know,
and while that stuff does work, I think what is more valuable is like being authentic and just
kind of showing like, Hey, you know, I'm not perfect. I learned something. I'm excited about
it. You know, I learned this new art package, people identify with that. And then you start
to grow your followers. And that can lead to new job opportunities that can lead to, you know,
you never know who that connection is going to be. And they may be the person that helps you
because we all need help. Right. You know, no matter where you are, you know, you're not going
to get, you're not going to be, you know, you're not going to be the best version of yourself
without getting a little bit of help along the way. And I think using LinkedIn and using Twitter
to that and just posting a little bit about your journey every, you know, doesn't have to be every
day, every couple of times each week, really, that'll make a huge difference.
Thank you. That's really helpful. And I'm starting to see some questions coming in
through the chat too. So Jeremy, I see you just asked a question. Do you want to jump in live and
ask it? I see you unmuted, but I'm not sure I can hear you yet. Oh, there you are. Hey.
I'm just interested. I do some online teaching and I do a lot of meetings online. I'm still
working from home. So I'm just interested in like how you, what technology you use to get the best
experience when you're connecting with people remotely, hardware and software, and how do you
integrate R into these technologies? Okay. Okay. So, great question, Jeremy.
The main types of softwares that I use, I mean, Zoom, I do a webinar once every,
I'm actually doing, I was doing it every two weeks. Now I'm going to do it every week.
But I usually try to do like a webinar and I try to teach a little bit about R
and certain topics. One that I'm actually getting ready to teach is time series.
I'm going to be doing that next week, but every week or every couple of weeks, I try to get
on a Zoom webinar and I just open it up to everybody because it's kind of a way to give
back. It's something that I'm very interested in helping people grow their R experience,
because I think, I think too, like oftentimes you see people out there and they just don't
know about R or they may be on like the edge of like, should I, should I do data science?
Could I do data science? You know, I'm working in Excel right now. I'm doing Power BI.
But like, what else can I do be doing to grow my career? So doing a webinar. So Zoom for webinars
is fantastic. I'm trying to think what else, obviously I use the RStudio product line
and or the Posit product line, but RStudio, the IDE is fantastic. Shiny, I think that is such like a
misunderstood technology out there that like people kind of often overlook. So I love showcasing Shiny
as a, as a way to like really take R into production because everyone always talks about
like, you know, MLOps and, you know, putting things into production. How do you do that with R?
Guys, it's right there. It's Shiny. It's fantastic. And let's see what else, what else,
what other technologies do I use? I mean, through my business, I probably touch 30 or 40 different
technologies. And we could probably talk all day about those, but do you have anything specific,
Jeremy, that you're interested in? No, I'm just interested in kind of, you know, hearing about
how you keep people engaged who've been in meetings all day and then, you know, tune into a,
another Zoom meetup. So, so yeah. So, okay. This is, this is good because something I started
working with is actually a coach and a, and a marketing guy as well. And that's really helped
me in my presentation skills because in the, on the online age, it's really tough to capture people's
engagement. So I don't know how deep Rachel, you want to go into the art of, of kind of presentations.
Let's dive in, whatever everybody wants to ask about. If you guys want to go, I'll go. I mean,
so, all right. There's, when you, when you do a presentation, you know, people are on Zoom calls
all day, you know, with COVID and everything, the last thing you want to do is you want to,
you want to just kind of like get onto a Zoom call and just talk at people for 60 minutes.
And that's the last thing that they want to do too, because, you know, they're going to be,
you know, after the first three minutes, they're going to tune you out, right?
So what we started doing on our marketing webinars and on our technical webinars is really just
trying to keep the engagement up. So like the, like what I did here with like the threes and
the fives, that's a, that's a way to engage. So you just ask a question to the audience
and oftentimes, you know, that, that keeps them kind of in there that much longer.
Talking, so the way I used to, I have a note on my, on my keyboard, don't be boring.
And so I will do like weird stuff, like I'll kind of, I've started to like play around with
the way that I talk. So I used to kind of like talk just like, like I would conversationally,
but in a, in a webinar, like you want to talk a little bit differently. You want to
actually accentuate, you know, your speech patterns. So like if you have kind of a long
sentence, you know, I'm talking about our studio, how great it is. And I want to make sure that you
get the most important information today that I, and these are the three things I want you to walk
away with. So I'll like play around with my speech a little bit that, that those inflection points
will keep people interested. And, and also starting everything with a big promise, like,
you know, Hey, what, why are you here today? Like, what are you going to get out of it? So I started
doing like this big promise at the beginning of my, of my webinars. And I just started saying,
you know, Hey, I'm going to teach you like one thing today. If you don't walk away from this
presentation with anything else, this is what you're going to do today. And, you know, like
for my time series presentation, or for like, I just did one on text analysis, you know, was
one skill that they're going to learn that is really going to like allow them to improve their
model performance and potentially save their company up to a million dollars. So something big
that they're going to walk away and they're going to, and they're going to see at the end
how, how we accomplish that. I think, I think you do a couple of those things and you're going to
see that your, you know, your zoom calls, your webinars that you're on, especially if you're
training data scientists, like some of that stuff can get dull pretty quickly. And I often talk,
I often think that the more that they can identify with you as the person. So I saw,
I'll mix in a little bit of my story, usually in the beginning of my talks. And I feel like that,
especially for new people that aren't, you know, accustomed to you yet. I think that that makes a
big difference. So that was a good question. Yeah. Great question. Thank you. That's really
helpful, Matt too. I've been thinking a lot about a lot of the communities that people build within
their own companies too, and getting people engaged and interested in those, that's really
helpful snippet for us. Yeah. And I think case studies too, like, like people often in companies,
like what I saw is even though you're on the same team, a lot of times you don't,
you don't see what they're doing. So sharing just a case study or an example of how you're
using R in that company can oftentimes help grow R within what, you know, inside the walls, because
you know, you might be in the marketing group, but the manufacturing group may have a
similar situation that, you know, they don't even know that it can help them. So yeah.
Absolutely. Share, tell stories, talk about your case studies, all that's really good stuff.
Marlene, I see you asked a question in the chat. Do you want to jump in?
Sure. Hey Matt. Good morning or afternoon. I don't even know what time zone you're in.
I'm in Key West right now. So yeah, I'm East Coast time zone. It is just noon, just hit noon. So
okay. Nice to see you Marlene. We just had the time shift, so I'm super discombobulated.
My question was around starting to kind of socialize data sharing. And it's a struggle
for certain organizations. Right. And I'm just wondering if you handle that a bit as a consultant,
like, I mean, obviously you deal a lot with the real hands-on data work, but how do you start
to address, or like I said, socialize the concept of breaking down some silos and barriers to data
sharing? I don't know if you can just say it's as easy as RStudio Connect or whatever you recommend,
or I don't know. How do you kind of start having that conversation?
So I'm a big fan of including as many stakeholders throughout the project as possible. So a typical
example might be like if I was doing a consulting project with like one of the companies I worked
with back in the day, like S&P Global, MRM McCann, they're a big marketing firm, S&P Global, they're
on, they're in the finance. So what I'll do, like I normally have a point of contact there that I'm
working with, but what I'll try and do is as we come up with the project, you know, discovery phase,
I'll ask a lot of questions like, what are your pain points? What, which, you know, how does this
affect your organization? Like really trying to like go a couple layers deep with them. And what
ends up happening is they'll be like, oh yeah, well this, you know, this affects this part of
the company. I was like, well, you know, should we involve them in the conversation? And they're
like, yeah, it's probably not a bad idea. So you start like kind of building a group of people,
and then once you get them all kind of, you know, filled in on what you guys are trying to do,
that often just helps break down the silos and they can kind of understand and talk in an open,
you know, forum where everyone's equal. And just really try to like understand this,
you know, whatever that problem is. Because most of the time that, you know, the data science team,
you're kind of acting like a consultant. A lot of times, you know, my impression of is they're
almost doing like a consulting capacity inside of an organization. So the toughest part is to like
be able to get everyone comfortable so that number one, they give you access to data. But number two,
get, you know, just get them talking and communicating so that way you really can,
you know, break down those like, I don't know, I don't know if they're like,
kind of like silos or barriers, whatever, whatever you want to call it, but you got to break those
down. So everyone's talking and then that's going to make them more comfortable for sure.
Got it. Yeah, I appreciate that. It's a struggle and you hit the nail right on the head and
operating on kind of like a consultancy. That's what I feel like I am running around
to about, we have a family of companies, six companies. So I'm calling each of the companies
saying, what's top of the priority list? What are you trying to automate? And or
sure. I'm on a five or six year plan to get us into machine learning. So it's
got to be a long, but what company do you work with? If you don't mind me asking?
Sure. I work for Western growers. We're a trade association for specialty crops growers,
so not corn and not any of those. So basically if you enjoy leafy greens, anybody on the call,
we take care of the growers, leafy greens all over the country. Nice. California. Yeah.
Okay. Yeah. I mean, it's, you know, it's not going to happen overnight. So I'm glad you guys have
like a actual plan that you guys are working to. Although you might be surprised, you can get it
done probably faster than five years, depending on how large your organization is and how much
of that, what do they call it? Corporate inertia, so to speak. But yeah, and the talk technology
will play a big role too. So you mentioned RStudio Connect. I think that's a fantastic
product. I think, you know, just getting quick wins, like anything, anytime you can get like
something simple, quick out there, that is going to be, that's going to gain their confidence in
you and your ability to manage that project. And I think that that's going to help you grow
your net, the net that you're trying to cast. So that's what I recommend. Yeah. Go for quick wins,
get them all in meetings, you know, communicate, make sure you go a couple levels deep with them.
Thank you so much. Yeah. I mean, I don't want to dominate the call because there are a lot
of other questions, but there's a lot going on here that I'm just throwing tons of irons
in the fire and trying to build some traction here and definitely going for easy wins. So
thanks so much, Matt. I appreciate it. Yep. You got it. You got it. No problem.
I'm seeing lots of love for both shiny and leafy greens in the chat right now.
Alan, I see you asked a question. You want to jump in?
Sure. Yeah. Hi, Matt. I'm really, really curious about the sort of identity of the company as you
call it business science and wanted to get you to maybe speak to that a little bit more. I read it
as being intentionally specific about the embeddedness of data work in organizations and
towards focused business problem solving and a little bit different from a lot of the positioning
of data science learning as like, you know, hardcore data science. And I wonder if that's
true. And if so, how do you kind of like, what does that mean for the way you design your courses
for the way you sort of, you know, pitch what the company does for people and that sort of thing?
Like, how is that a kind of day to day part of the identity of the company?
Right. Now that's a good question, Alan. And I'm really glad you brought that up.
So the identity of my company business science has actually evolved over time. Initially,
you know, I was just trying to combine business and data science and in a way, and I'm a very
kind of like, I want to be it to be obvious, you know, what the, like what the naming of the
company, I'm not like a company like Apple, where I'm going to like, you know, call myself Apple.
And then it's going to be a, you know, technology company that builds, you know, phones and
computers and those sorts of things and all the other stuff that they do now. So I wanted to like,
that's the originally why I called it business science. And again, my roots were in consulting.
So I was actually applying data science to business. And that's really was the crux of
what I was trying to go after. And when I was coming up with training initially, that's really
what I wanted to, you know, emphasize is like a business forward or a business first type of way
of learning data science. Now, with that said, things have changed a lot in the past four years
or five years that I've been running this thing. And I will say this, like, seriously, I actually
view and we can get like at a like a really deep level of conversation on this. But I really view
that data scientists, and like data analysts, I think that there's going to be a new role here
in the next couple of years that companies are going to start adopting the role of the business
scientist, because you already have a business analyst. And I haven't really talked a whole lot
about this yet. But like, the more I think about it, the problem, the problem and the challenge
with data science, and why companies often like fail with data science, it's not because they have,
they don't have good people, or they don't have, you know, problem solvers, or this or that.
But they lose sight of the business first mentality, where you need to be able to start
with a problem in an organization, be able to work with many different levels of the organization,
from executives, to line managers, to people who are doing the work. And you have to work
cross functionally and cross sectionally throughout the company. And that, to me,
requires like a heavy business acumen, like not just a like, hey, I know data. And I know a few
algorithms that I can throw at the data. Like, no, that's, that's not how it goes. Like, the
most successful people that I've seen are the ones that are able to communicate effectively,
that know what the target is of the organization, the objectives, and they can translate that into
like all the different, you know, they can kind of take that down and, and translate it across the
organization. So I view the more and more that I think about this, I really view that there's
probably the next, you know, couple of years, you're going to start seeing like actual roles on
like, you know, for within companies, like on Indeed for the business scientists, and I'm going
to start promoting that here, actually, you know, start probably in 2023, you'll see more
of me talking about that. So good, good question. But that's great. Thanks. I love hearing that
evolution and your your the way that what you're seeing in the industry and in companies is
informing how, how your your thinking moves, and really, really resonates everything you're saying
about being tightly connected about the work matters, because it's solving problems that people
need us to solve. Yeah, really, really cool. Thanks. Awesome. Well, thanks a lot for that
question, Alan. Thank you. That was my, that was my daughter, Shay. She's just this came in to say
I'm gonna shut the door real quick. No worries.
Hey, Rachel. Hey, yes, I was gonna say, jump, jump in there. And I see your hand raised.
Yeah, so it's funny, Eugene just made a comment on this along the same lines of where I'm thinking.
So my team at Peloton just got a new VP. And one of the very first things that he began talking
about is product management within our team, which is kind of shifting us away from this
project management based style of intake and like prioritization to strictly like aligning
ourselves with stakeholders. So I wanted to ask you, Matt, how that's played out in your organization?
How do you prioritize? How do you like, share responsibilities across your team? Like,
what's your org chart? Do you have product managers? How do they interact with your
developers? Like just trying to get a sense of how it works? How do you run your shop, basically?
Yeah, yeah. So, so business science is a small company. We are up to seven or eight now.
But mainly, you know, compared to probably Peloton, which has a lot more than eight people.
So, so in my shop, you know, I wear a lot of hats. My wife, she's, you know, she's working,
doing, you know, working with like businesses, actual companies,
also working like with customer service and finance. So we have like, everyone, you know,
at business science, we all wear a lot of different hats. We do have some role players,
we've got people that are marketing, I have consultants that I've actually hired out to
that are, you know, helping me with different products that we're getting ready to launch or
have launched already. We now have a sales team. But that's kind of like the extent of it.
As I'm growing in this capacity, and this is really new to me. Because a year ago, we were
three people at this time. It was me, my wife, and then I just had hired my first like official
marketing guy. His name is Mike. So Mike joined the team. And then fast forward a year later,
and now we're at seven. So we're starting to grow a little bit faster now. But what I've seen is,
for me personally, the challenges are way different. Because being a course creator,
you know, it's more technical in nature. I'm thinking about like, what does the student
need to learn? How do I package this into a product that's going to, you know, effectively
walk them through all the major things, but still be like business forward and, you know,
get them the early win and take them through a whole business project. But now,
while I'm still creating courses, actually, some of that has slowed down. And now what I'm
emphasizing more in my role is leadership. So leadership is something that anybody can learn.
It's, you know, definitely a learnable skill. And it starts with caring. So that's, this is
the funny thing. I've started to like actually like call people up and just like, you know,
let them know that I care about them and talk with them, you know, on a personal level, like,
hey, where are you trying to go in your life? What are you trying to do? And how can business
science best help you get there? And I think that's something that's like, maybe a little weird,
could be a little weird at first, but like, it's something unique that I do that has really helped
me like, kind of identify with people and really get to understand them more. And when I show them
like, okay, this is how business science can help you grow, if you're trying to become a better data
scientist, and also, you know, working for my company, you know, how does that relate to what
you're doing at Peloton? You know, there's definitely, we can all get better at leadership.
And I think that that's really when you, when you're working at, even if you're as a project
manager, where you aren't necessarily like overseeing people, but you, but you do effectively
have to get them to do things in order to help you do the project, right? So, you know, just having
that level of kind of, you know, leading by example, and, you know, getting to know the person,
showing them how your project is going to help them do better with whatever their goals are,
and how it's going to help them make things easier, make it easier for them, or
increase their status in the company. Like, simple things, like, and it doesn't have to be,
like, like, people think, like, people are motivated by money all the time. That's, that's a load of
bull. What people are really motivated by, honestly, is things, like, simple things, like recognition.
You know, if they're going to be part of the team, and this thing's a success, you know, I'm
going to recognize you, and I want you to know that going into this, like, you're going to be up there
with the whole team, and we're going to, we're going to, you know, showcase, you know, everything
that went into this project, and, you know, simple things like that, that can actually, like,
especially if you're a project manager, can really help. So, I don't know if that makes
sense. I don't know if that's helpful or not, but that's my two cents, at least. Yeah, definitely.
All those things ring true and relevant to my situation here. So, thank you so much. You got it.
Thank you, Matt. Juan, I see you asked a great question in the chat a bit earlier.
If you're still on, would you want to jump in and ask that?
And I can, oh, I think you unmuted there. Hey. Hi, well, now, I was wondering, how do you
get over the impostor syndrome? I've been working with data since sociologists 20 years ago,
but with R full-time since 2015, 16, but I don't consider myself a data scientist or a data
analyst, even though I'm a sociologist with political science. I work with electoral data,
public opinion data, Twitter data, but I don't know how to get that step to consider myself a
data scientist. Thank you. So, yeah. So, Juan, this is a great one. So, I would venture to say
you're not alone. Just a show of hands. Anybody else experience impostor syndrome at any point
in your career? Just put a six in the chat. Put a six. We'll do a six. All right. All right. So,
Juan, you're seeing the chat, right? Yes. Lots of people are having impostor syndrome, too. So,
that's the first thing. I would say probably 90% of data scientists experience some level
of impostor syndrome. It's very common. I experienced it. I'll share with you my story
and kind of some of the things that I did to get over it, but my problem was, so I'm a data
scientist, like, self-trained. I never went to school for data science. I was a mechanical
engineer. I've worked in the valve industry, mainly doing, like, actually design work and
maintenance efforts, and then kind of managing a, like, actual team of engineers that build
valves, basically. I eventually got into the sales group because they liked what I was doing
managerially with that engineering group, so I got some additional responsibility, and I started to,
you know, kind of work my way up in the organization, but I started learning data science,
and it wasn't easy. Like, it was far from it. Honestly, it took me probably at least four or
five years to think of myself as an actual data scientist, and there were some days when I was
going through it, and I remember, like, trying to make reports and just, like, nothing's coming
together. I'm drawing blanks. I'm just staring at the screen, like, the cursor's blinking at me,
and I'm just, like, Matt, pull it together, like, you know, what the heck's wrong, but
so, like, people go through that, and I venture to say, like, at least, you know,
nine out of ten data scientists, right? I mean, it's pretty common, so things that can help,
things that help me. Don't give up. Like, every day is a new day, so try and write at least one
line of code a day. That was something that I implemented in my own personal journey, and I did
that for, like, I don't know, seven or eight years straight, and that single activity of, like,
saying, like, hey, I got to pull up RStudio. I got to start, you know, I just got to put one line of
code in there, and you know what's going to happen? It's a mental thing, because you're
going to write more than one line of code. Like, who's going to stop at one line of code, right?
I mean, it takes you, you know, so anyways, I started doing that. I started being consistent
with my habits. I started really, like, doubling down on some of the things that I was learning,
like ggplot, just getting visualizations. Those are quick wins. Once I learned ggplot,
I could then start telling stories to my management team, and that was, you know,
something that, like, nobody else in my company was doing, so I started focusing on things like
that that weren't, like, necessarily overly complex, like machine learning or anything
like that. I kind of set some of that stuff aside and really focused on the foundational things.
I got really good with data wrangling. That was another area where, like, people in my company
had tough times when there was, you know, especially in a SQL database where you've got,
like, you know, a jillion tables. Which ones do you pull in? So, I learned, like, one table,
like the customer table. I learned the transactions table. I learned how to connect the two
and start to blend the data, and this is stuff that, like, people had a really tough time with
in my company, and it was something that differentiated me, and again, just a quick win.
You start to learn, you know, a handful of dplyr functions, like group by and summarize. I mean,
how often is that, like, exactly the one-two punch that your boss needs in order to be able to
gain insights? So, you know, I really focused on some of those.
I had a problem. One of my biggest mistakes is I would get on LinkedIn,
and honestly, I would see everyone talking about deep learning. This was back 2016, you know,
they would be talking about TensorFlow, Keras. That, for me, was a huge black hole. I got no,
or I got very limited value out of that stuff. I actually, true story, I built a regression model
for my company that ended up, like, honestly, no joke, helping me take the part of the company that
I was overseeing from about $3 million to $15 million in revenue, and it was a small part of
the company, because the company made about, like, $500 million a year in revenue, so this is, like,
a kind of a drop in the bucket, but, like, that, you know, my boss saw that, and my boss's boss
saw that, and they're like, oh, wow, this is really, you know, pretty impressive what you're
doing. It was a, I implemented a lead scoring algorithm that literally was just a logistic
regression. Now, true story, I then, I was getting good results with that, so I was like, oh,
this deep learning stuff, this is pretty cool, right? You know, I was thinking to myself,
I was seeing, like, what people were doing online with it, and they're like, oh, my gosh,
I can do image classification. I can do this and that, so I hauled off, and I was like, all right,
I'm going to learn deep learning, at least the basics, and I'm going to, like, try to apply it
to this lead scoring problem, and I spent probably six months on that, and I got nothing out of it.
My logistic regression model was better, just trying to, like, understand TensorFlow, and then
realizing TensorFlow is too complicated, so then I'm going to switch to Keras, and then, oh,
somebody's talking about PyTorch. Actually, I can't even remember if PyTorch was out back then,
but, you know, it's just the process of, like, seeing all these, like, I call them red herrings,
like, they're, you know, these shiny objects out there that are trying to, like, steal your
attention, and it's taking you away from, like, the thing that you're, that's actually getting you
the value, so data wrangling, ggplot, you know, work on those, get the foundations, get the basics done,
and get the quick wins, and then kind of work your way up as you go. Then machine learning
ended up being really powerful for me and some other stuff, so I hope that helps.
Thank you, Matt, for doing the numbers thing, too, because I think it's, like, it's always helpful
to just see how many other people are feeling that as well. Yep, yep, no, that's, and imposter
syndrome is a big one. Even my students, a lot of them, that's sometimes the reason that they're,
that can be, like, honestly the sole reason that they take, that they jump into my program is
because, you know, whatever they're taking, they, you know, it's just not getting them through. They
always feel like every, for two steps forward, they're taking one step backwards, so, you know,
you hate to see that, and that's, you know, that's something I'm on a mission to help my students at
least get through that. Definitely. Siavash, I see you had your hand raised, too.
And I know Siavash. How's it going, man? Hi, Matt. I'm a student. I'm a proud student. I'm really
enjoying the time series course. Great. I already thought that it was, like, I'm already doing
a lot of time series, so it's going to be a quick course, but it's, like, a lot of functions that I
struggled, and I spent a lot of time to just write them. It's, like, some of these helper functions
make my life much easier, and I'm still not throughout the course, so I appreciate that.
My question is, what is the next big thing in business science? I'm very looking forward
what you're working on and when it will be coming. So I'm working on two big things right now.
The first one is actually a program that combines. So for those of you who don't know how business
science is structured, I have a core product, which is called the five-course R-Track. The time
series course that Siavash is taking is the third course in that system, and it's basically
designed to kind of take you from wherever you are now to, you know, being super productive,
being able to out-compete all of your competition if you're trying to get a job, or if you already
have a job and you're trying to apply data science, give you all the skills necessary,
you know, things like Shiny, things like the data wrangling, the visualization, time series, which
was a huge win for me when I was working back in the day for Bonnie Forge. But the next big
thing is to kind of take that system and add on an additional course to it, but also, so the course,
the additional course is to help get you a data science job in 30 days, and then the whole package
is designed to also add in a coach, a personalized coach that takes you through the entire program
in under 180 days, along with the whole group that goes through the process with you.
So one of the big hurdles that I was finding is that, you know, some people like Siavash,
like, you know, you're highly self-motivated and you're crushing the courses, but these courses,
I mean, they're pretty dense because they go deep into, like, how to solve the business problems
and get you, and that's where you get the value out of it, but it's very easy for, like, or like,
you know, a curveball to come and to get sidetracked and then, you know, staying motivated.
So we want to have a coach that helps take you through that whole process, somebody who's,
and it's designed for people who want to get data science positions, so that way, whether they want
to get a senior data science position, you know, through the beta program, I've already had
one student get a job at Air Canada. She got it in four months using this program.
Another student, she's 22 years old. Her name's Hobby. I actually hired her on as my next coach
because she is so fantastically good at getting a data science interview. It's disgustingly scary,
but she has, like, all the tricks in the book, and she knows how to take the curriculum.
She, like, you guys have to hear this. She had no prior data science experience,
like, working as a data scientist. She had no prior working experience other than
she used to sell wine for her dad's business. Her dad owned a company that distributed
wine. So she was able to, in seven months with this program, be able to get her first data
science job. She just landed here about two weeks ago at the Federal Reserve in Minnesota,
so Minneapolis, Minnesota. So she crushed it, and I had to hire her on because she had everything
stacked against her. No working experience prior to that. So that's the first thing that I'm
working on. We're getting ready to productionalize that because I have to have a sales team help
sell that. It's a higher ticket product because of the coaching aspect, but the results that it
gets are amazing. So to productionalize that just takes a little bit more work. So we're probably
going to be launching that here in January. And then the other thing that I have in beta right now
is I'm leveraging, I kind of, I always seek my past for guidance, and one of the things I'm doing
right now is with consulting, teaching people who have, who are dangerous with R to learn how
to turn that into a business, whether it's a side hustle or actually creating a scalable business
model that, you know, I'm teaching them how to do things like find their niche, how to
develop an offer that there's market demand for already out there, how to create a business,
and how to basically do everything from take, to generate leads, to building out a sales
presentation and selling clients. And the goal is to land $25,000 plus data science projects,
and then to be able to scale that so that way what they do, their first client, their first
client pays them to build it, and then their next client, they shrink the time because they've
already got most of the code written already, and they can reproduce it, and it becomes a scalable
business model. So that's the, that's the next project I'm working on right now. I have nine
students in that beta program, and we're just through the first week of it right now, but it's
going really well so far, so cross my fingers. I'm hoping to launch that probably mid-next year.
Awesome, thank you very much. Matt, I know you have a hard stop at the top of the hour with
kids running in on vacation too, so I want to make sure to get to a few other questions.
I know, Frank, you asked one in the chat a bit earlier. I was trying to scroll up and find it.
You want to ask live here? I can go quick. So Matt, thinking about your classes, putting right, like
remembering back to when I was taking them, and then you were talking about the webinars and some
of the techniques that you learned, and you used to keep people on the call through the whole webinar.
It made me wonder about some of the analytics behind people taking the courses, and if there's
anything that you learned there about how data people either like to learn, or how they learn,
and how you, like, use that to change how you create courses. One of the things that comes to
mind is, what is the data science topic that, like, we 2x playback speed through the most frequently?
Anything like that. So, I find learners are either 2x learners, 1.5x learners, or 1x learners. So,
no matter what, once they get the hang of how to do 2x, it's like you never go back, right?
I do, too. I do, like, at least one and a half x on all of my YouTube videos. That's how I crush
a lot of content a lot of times, and I find that a lot of learners, when it comes to, like,
analyzing, like, how they learn. So, one of the biggest metrics that I started out with
was understanding if my courses were better than the rest in the market. So, I pride myself on,
as just, like, as a kind of an online format, it is insanely tough to even get people to take your
course, right? So, a couple of things we do differently. I think the Slack channel with the
support, getting the support, as soon as they have a problem, they can hop in there, get in,
you know, ask any question, no questions off the table, and really get feedback at the speed of
learning. I think that's incredibly important. When I implemented that, that really helped kind
of take my completion rates up. Now, the other thing, so having a community like that really
helped, keeping videos small, I think that's super critical. So, there's this thing, I can't
remember the name of the curve, but people learn kind of in a, it's like a U-shaped curve. So,
if you do, like, an hour webinar, people only remember the first part of it and the end of it.
Like, in the middle, they're only going to, their chances of remembering that, it's like three to
five percent. But at the beginning and end, so if you can shrink that time down, and one of the things
I did was, I tried to keep no video longer than five minutes. So, you're going to at least remember
the beginning and end of each of those videos, and then it's also going to be like M&Ms, you're just
going to pop one after the other, right? Rather than having to, you know, eat a whole big, like, pile
at once, right? So, those are some of the things that I started implementing that really, I saw
move the needle for my program. A lot of other stuff that we do differently, starting off with a
business problem first, I think that's super critical. Getting them a quick win, showing them
like a jump start, like, not a full analysis, but a bite-sized analysis, so they can begin with the
end in mind, they can kind of see and visualize how this course is going to play out, and how that
value is going to stack, and then by the end of it, they're like, you know, beyond thrilled, because
they saw just at the beginning, you know, what they're going to accomplish.
That's funny about the jump start. I felt like I had learned the whole class after the
jump start. I got my value. And then it's just fitting the pieces and going just a
little bit deeper with some of the concepts, yeah. So, once you get through the jump start,
like, you already know where you're going. It's just, how do I get there, and then
get a lot of its muscle memory, like, repetition with some of those functions, and just, you know,
really kind of like, you know, understanding how people learn. In terms of data science, I don't
do a whole lot of data science on analytics on, like, actually the learning journey. I do
more analytics now. One of the big things that really helped me was understanding, as my email
list has grown, that everybody is not necessarily, like, you know, one size fits all. Hit them with
the R track, you know, they're, you know, a portion of them are going to buy it. And yes, certainly
that's certain, you know, that's true, but we're starting now to get segments that, like,
are very new, and maybe they just need, like, a beginner, you know, or maybe they want a book
at first to, like, kind of warm them up to me, rather than, you know, and certainly some people
are ready to jump into, like, the R track, and that's what I normally sell, especially if they
are on a webinar. I'm going to, you know, present that offer to them, because normally if they're
investing, like, an hour plus time, you know, they're pretty committed at that point. But some
people, you know, especially if they're just, like, teetering on, like, the edge of, like,
what is data science? Is it right for me? You know, that's a different product. That's, like,
a book. So we got to, like, start to understand our customers, where they're at in their own
learning journey, and present the right offer at the right time in order to be able to help
them through that process. That was awesome. Thank you. Thank you so much, Matt, for joining
us today. I know we're getting right to the top of the hour, and you have to run, but there's a
few questions that went unanswered. Is it okay if I send those over to you, maybe on LinkedIn?
Yeah, yeah. So full disclosure, guys, I'm down here with my family in Key West, Florida. We're
trying to enjoy, we got a flight at five o'clock, so I'm trying to enjoy the last little bit of
pool time I'm going to have with my kids. But yeah, definitely, Rachel, send me those questions
over. We'll get them answered. I'll do that promptly. Hopefully, by tomorrow or the weekend,
I'll get them back to you. Oh, wait till next week. You go run to the pool time right now.
Don't worry about other questions. Thank you so much, Matt, for joining us and for all the great questions.
Yeah, it was so great being on here, guys. Honestly, Rachel, it's an honor for you to invite me on here.
And whatever you guys are doing, you know, just know that you're on the right path here with our
data science. It's really going to help you. It helped my career. I know it's going to help you guys, too.